# Getting a Git Repository

You can get a Git repository in two ways:

1. Turn a local directory into a Git repository.
2. Clone an existing Git repository from somewhere else.

Either way, you'll have a Git repository on your machine ready to use.

## Initializing a Repository in an Existing Directory

If you have a project that is not under version control, you can initialize it with Git. First, go to your project directory:

- **Linux**:
  ```
  $ cd /home/user/my_project
  ```
- **macOS**:
  ```
  $ cd /Users/user/my_project
  ```
- **Windows**:
  ```
  $ cd C:/Users/user/my_project
  ```

Then, type:

```
$ git init
```

This creates a `.git` directory to store Git files. At this point, nothing is tracked yet.

To start tracking files, add them and make an initial commit:

```
$ git add *.c
$ git add LICENSE
$ git commit -m 'Initial project version'
```

Now, you have a Git repository with tracked files and an initial commit.

## Cloning an Existing Repository

To copy an existing Git repository, use the `git clone` command. For example:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2
```

This creates a directory called `libgit2`, initializes a `.git` directory, downloads the repository data, and checks out the latest version. Go into the directory to start working:

```
$ cd libgit2
```

If you want to name the directory something else, specify it as an additional argument:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2 mylibgit
```

This clones the repository into a folder named `mylibgit`.

Git supports different protocols for cloning:

- HTTPS: `https://`
- Git: `git://`
- SSH: `user@server:path/to/repo.git`

Each protocol has its own advantages and is configured on the server. Explore more about setting up Git on a server to learn about these options.
